iframe-has-title: various improvements (#1464)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/iframe-non-empty-title-attribute-cae760.md

> ---

Author: I have no idea why Github's UI is showing it this way, but as you can see in the commit for it; this file was rename:
https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1464/commits/df5af2c377205db209f2912b5dfd1d431c7f56ff

> ---

Reviewer: The thing is that git has no real notion of "moving" (it deletes and recreate instead, including with `git mv`).
I think this is due to move + too many changes and then git algo consider that it is a different file, not the same, and there is a high risk that it will creep that way in the merge commit (i.e., we'll loose continuity after merge).

We had a similar issue last year (with a label rule, iirc), which we ended up solving by having a PR just to rename the file (so that git picks the correct move in all its logs), and then a PR for doing the actual changes 😞 See #904 and linked PRs/issues.

> ---

Author: OK I'll open a new PR just to rename the file. We'll have to merge that in before this one then.

id: cae760
name: '`iframe` element has non-empty title attribute'
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that each `iframe` element has a non-empty `title` attribute.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:4.1.2: # Name, Role, Value (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Jey Nandakumar
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

The rule applies to `iframe` elements, except if the `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][], and one of the following is true:

- the `iframe` has a [hidden state][] of `true`; or
- the `iframe` has an [explicit role][] of `presentation` or `none`; or

> - the `iframe` has no [content document][] with [content][] [included in the accessibility tree][].

Author: Good idea, except without the brackets. Those are in the template to indicate this is optional.

## Expectation

Each target element has a `title` [attribute value][] that is neither empty (`""`) nor only [ASCII whitespace][].

## Assumptions

This rule assumes that an `iframe` is only a [user interface component][] if it is a container that assistive technologies can navigate into, or if it is a stop in the [sequential focus navigation][]. Since [4.1.2 Name Role Value][sc412] only applies to [user interface components][user interface component] not all `iframe` elements require a `title` attribute, including some `iframe` elements that are announced by assistive technologies.

## Accessibility Support

There are substantial differences between how various browsers and assistive technologies treat `iframe` elements. This rule is designed to work in a variety of commonly used combinations of them. Some notable differences are:

> - Some browsers do not use the [accessible name computation][] to compute the name of an `iframe` element, and instead only announce the `title` attribute.

Author: I put it here because this is neither an assumption about the content, nor an assumption about how to interpret the requirement. The "choice" that is made is to not exclude voiceover+safari from this rule, which I think the rule properly documents. I think this needs to be here.

> - Some browsers do not use the [accessible name computation][] to compute the name of an `iframe` element, and instead only announce the `title` attribute.

Reviewer: The problem is that the examples with `aria-label` are now false positive for JAWS users.

We're choosing to follow one UA+AT and not the others, which we have to do, but we're making the choice to follow the one that goes directly against the specs: https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aam-1.0/#iframe-element which doesn't sound good.

I'm not sure this solves #1367 and would like to see @dd8 opinion on this.

> - Some browsers do not use the [accessible name computation][] to compute the name of an `iframe` element, and instead only announce the `title` attribute.

Author: Not a single one of them respects the specs JY. We have three options here:

1. Follow the spec, ignoring the fact that not a single browser actually works the way it is spec'ed. This was the first version, and the ACT TF we've had pushback on that, including from AG and the ACT TF. So that option is out.

2. Write a rule to the lowest common denominator; if it works anywhere at all, pass it. Which as far as I can see, means iframes never fail because Chrome+JAWS just doesn't treat iframes as UICs. We would just have to deprecate the rule. That's doens't seem like a particularly viable option either.

3. We intentionally leave out some of the major browsers, even though none of them work according to spec. That seems like picking favorites, which doens't seem fair.

4. Write a rule that, ignoring spec, makes sure that iframes are accessible in all major browsers and screen readers. That is this version. If this rule says its a fail, it is definitely a fail somewhere. Not in all of them mind you, but definitely somewhere. This is in line with "accessibility support" as WCAG defines it, and seems to be what Mark was suggesting we do too.

If we want an iframe accessible name rule at all, I think this is the only viable option. It's a little controversial. But it's the least controversial option I could figure out. Open to other ideas, but I'm not on board with picking favorites or ditching the rule.

> - Some browsers do not use the [accessible name computation][] to compute the name of an `iframe` element, and instead only announce the `title` attribute.

Reviewer: A solution I would be much more confortable with:
* Keep "each target has a non-empty accessible name" as expectation. At this point we don't really care where the accessible name comes from.
* Remove examples that use `aria-label`, `aria-labelledby` or anything other than `title`. These examples behave differently on different UA/AT, making them fairly annoying for us whether they pass or fail, since we don't want to take sides.
* Add an Accessibility Support in the line of "some UA+AT only use `title` for accessible name of `iframe`, while other also use `aria-label` and `aria-labelledby`, depending on UA+AT, the same target may pass or fail." + maybe strengthen with "it is recommended to use `title` only since this will be correctly handled by all UA+ATs"
* + likely copy the AS note in the def of accessible name, since it is a discrepancy about accessible name computation and behaviours that differ from the specs.

- [Understanding Success Criterion 4.1.2](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/name-role-value.html)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

This `iframe` element has a non-empty `title` [attribute value][].

```html
<iframe title="Grocery List" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

#### Passed Example 2

This `iframe` element with a [semantic role][] of `article` has a non-empty `title` [attribute value][].

```html
<iframe role="article" title="Grocery List" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

This `iframe` element has no `title` attribute.

```html
<iframe src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This `iframe` element has an empty (`""`) `title` [attribute value][].

```html
<iframe title="" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

#### Failed Example 3

This `iframe` element has `title` [attribute value][] that consists of only [ASCII whitespace][].

```html
<iframe title="  " src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> This `iframe` element should use the `title` attribute, instead of using `aria-label`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` element has no `title` attribute, the `aria-label` attribute is not considered by this rule and many user agents.
```

```html
<iframe aria-label="Grocery list" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

#### Failed Example 5

> This `iframe` element with a [semantic role][] of `article` should use the `title` attribute, instead of using `aria-labelledby`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` element with a [semantic role][] of `article` has no `title` attribute, the `aria-labelledby` attribute is not considered by this rule and many user agents.
```

```html
<div id="frame-title-helper">Grocery List</div>
<iframe role="article" aria-labelledby="frame-title-helper" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

#### Failed Example 6

> This `iframe` element should have a `title` attribute, or be removed from [sequential focus navigation][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` element has no `title` attribute, even though it has a presentational role, it is still part of [sequential focus navigation][] and thus require a name.
```

```html
<iframe src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html" role="none"> </iframe>
```

#### Failed Example 7

> This `iframe` element should have a `title` attribute, or be removed as a container by setting an [explicit role][] of `presentation` or `none`, or by setting `aria-hidden` to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` element has no `title` attribute, even though is has been removed from [sequential focus navigation][], it is still exposed as a container (and needs a name) without setting an [explicit role][] of `presentation` or `none`, or setting `aria-hidden` to `true`.
```

```html
<iframe tabindex="-1" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"> </iframe>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

> This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] and has no [content][] because its CSS `display` property is `none`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] and has a [hidden state][] of `true` because its CSS `display` property is `none`.
```

```html
<iframe style="display:none;" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"></iframe>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

> This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] and has no [content][] because its CSS `visibility` property is `hidden`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] and has a [hidden state][] of `true` because its CSS `visibility` property is `hidden`.
```

```html
<iframe style="visibility:hidden;" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"></iframe>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

> This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`, and has an [explicit role][] of `presentation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`; and it has an [explicit role][] of `presentation`.
```
Not fully clear whether the subject of "has" was the tabindex or the iframe. I think that improves it.

> **Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content inaccessible to keyboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content, inaccessible to keyboard.
```

```html
<iframe role="presentation" tabindex="-1" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"></iframe>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 4

> This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`, and has an [explicit role][] of `none`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`; and it has an [explicit role][] of `none`.
```

> **Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content inaccessible to keyboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content, inaccessible to keyboard.
```

```html
<iframe role="none" tabindex="-1" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"></iframe>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 5

> This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`, and has an [hidden state][] of `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`; and it has an [hidden state][] of `true`.
```

> **Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content inaccessible to keyboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content, inaccessible to keyboard.
```

```html
<iframe aria-hidden="true" tabindex="-1" src="/test-assets/SC4-1-2-frame-doc.html"></iframe>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 6

> This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`, and has no [content][] inside the `iframe`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `iframe` is not part of [sequential focus navigation][] because its `tabindex` [attribute value][] is `-1`; and it has no [content][] inside the `iframe`.
```

> **Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content inaccessible to keyboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Warning:** Using `tabindex="-1"` on an `iframe` makes it, and all its content, inaccessible to keyboard.
```

```html
<iframe tabindex="-1" src="/test-assets/shared/empty.html"></iframe>
```

[included in the accessibility tree]: #included-in-the-accessibility-tree 'Definition of included in the accessibility tree'
[ascii whitespace]: https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#ascii-whitespace
[sequential focus navigation]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#sequential-focus-navigation 'HTML definition of Sequential focus navigation'
[user interface component]: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-user-interface-components
[accessible name computation]: https://www.w3.org/TR/accname
[explicit role]: #explicit-role
[hidden state]: #hidden-state

> [content]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#palpable-content 'HTML definition of Palpable Content'

Reviewer: I think we might call it "palpable content" everywhere in the rule, given that "content" has already a meaning that is more than just the "palpable content".

Also, "palpable content included in the accessibility tree" is almost [perceivable content](https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/blob/rule-cf77f2-bypass-blocks/pages/glossary/perceivable-content.md) I've been working on. I'm not sure whether "perceivable content" would fit your needs here… and/or if we should chisel out a definition that fits both needs…

Author: Seeing as this isn't done yet, I'm going to leave this for what it is now. We can always revisit later.

Reviewer: I still think we should use "palpable content" all over in the text, rather than "content. Because "content" has another meaning.
